# Choose the right database

How better can your app scale depends on the choice of the database you use. 

Databases do not impact your Functional requirements but can have an lot of impact on your non-functional requirements. (Stress/Load/Scale).

Key Factors influencing the choice of the database
Structure of the data - structured or non-structure
Query Pattern
Scale to handle (non func requirement)

Caching 
If you don't want to query a database a lot of times, you could cache it.
And also if you are calling a remote system with high latency you might want to store the response in your caching system.

Redis is battle tested and fairly stable. (Key/Value pairs)
The keys are ofen part of request params for the query or for the API calls.


All of the below gets stored in Blob Storage (S3)
Product Catalog Videos or Photos
Netflix Videos

Along with S3 you might want to use a CDN. Used for distributing the images/videos geographically in a lot of locations.

Text Searching Capabilities - Text Search Engine (ElasticSearch, solr) - Apache Lucene 
with Fuzzy Search - Providing a great user search experience on your website.

Difference between a Search Engine and Database.
Search Engine cannot be your primary data store, no gaurantee. data could be lost.

RDBMS db's for ACID props
Document db's for lot of queries and lot of attributes
Columnar db's for ever increasing data and finite number of queries.

In most of the implementations, its usually a mix and match of these usage of databases.

